Security analysts, ﬁrm managers, and investors all devote a great deal of attention to ﬁrms’ reported earnings. Forecasts of earnings are widely disseminated in the ﬁnancial press, and revisions in analysts’ forecasts are closely followed. Managers are keenly interested in maintaining growth in earnings because their compensations are often tied to their ﬁrms’ earnings. News that a ﬁrm has fallen short of earnings expectations can immediately send its stock price plummeting; ﬁrms that beat expectations, on the other hand, are handsomely rewarded by investors. With the advent of round-the-clock ﬁnancial news reporting as well as expanded trading venues, the market’s obsession with earnings performance is not likely to diminish.

The focus on earnings is so great that it has been suggested that the market ﬁxates on ﬁrms’ bottom line income, to the exclusion of other indicators of operating performance. Such single-minded attention fails to recognize that reported net income is the ﬁnal result of an extended accounting process with considerable room for managerial discretion at every step. For example, accounting rules give some leeway with respect to the timing and measurement of revenues and expenses. Further, special items such as restructuring charges and write-offs can have large temporary effects on earnings. Given the heightened attention to accounting income, managers may have an incentive to be aggressive in applying accounting rules in order to maintain steady growth in earnings. Empirical evidence supporting the existence of managerial manipulation of earnings is provided in Degeorge, Patel and Zeckhauser (1999), and Teoh, Welch and Wong (1998a, 1998b).

More generally, there has been growing concern about ﬁrms’ “quality of earnings,” or the extent to which reported earnings reﬂect operating fundamentals. The ﬁnancial press has noted managers’ tendencies to put a good face on earnings, and the SEC has initiated a research program on earnings management. In the context of stock prices, to the extent that the market ﬁxates on reported income and does not take into account the quality of ﬁrms’ historical earnings, there may be temporary deviations of prices away from their correct values. Put another way, measures of earnings quality may have predictive power for future movements in stock prices.

If market participants can be accused of ﬁxating on earnings, a similar charge might also apply to academic empirical research on stock returns. A large literature documents that ﬁrm characteristics based on accounting data help predict the cross-section of future stock returns. Few if any studies, however, venture beyond net income or cash ﬂow (net income plus depreciation). In so doing, researchers may be making the

same mistake as investors in taking net income at face value and ignoring the underlying quality of earnings. As a result the existing literature may give an incomplete picture of the behavior of stock returns. To take an illustration, there is extensive evidence that an unexpected increase in earnings is associated with positive abnormal returns (Latane and Jones (1979), Foster, Olsen and Shevlin (1984), Bernard and Thomas (1989)). However, this association might be expected to vary, depending on whether the earnings surprise reﬂects a genuine improvement in proﬁtability, or aggressive accounting by managers who are manipulating earnings. In this respect, adjusting net income to reﬂect the quality of earnings may be important.

One measure, accounting accruals, has recently gained attention as an important indicator of earnings quality that is useful for equity valuation. Accruals represent the difference between a ﬁrm’s accounting earnings and its underlying cash ﬂow. Large positive accruals indicate that earnings are much higher than the cash ﬂows generated by the ﬁrm. The difference arises because of accounting conventions as to when, and how much, revenues and costs are recognized (the so-called “revenue recognition” and “matching” principles). Empirically, Sloan (1996), Houge and Loughran (2000) ﬁnd that stocks with high accruals, signifying earnings are high relative to cash ﬂows, subsequently have lower returns and under-perform stocks with low accruals.

One popular interpretation of this evidence equates accruals with managerial book-keeping mischief (see, for example, Abarbanell and Lehavy (2000)). Generally accepted accounting principles give ﬁrm managers some latitude in terms of the timing and magnitudes of revenues and expenses. As managers inﬂate earnings above cash ﬂows, accruals rise. High accruals may reﬂect, for example, increases in accounts receivable as managers record sales prematurely, or decreases in current liabilities as managers understate liabilities such as warranty expenses. Since investors ﬁxate on reported bottom-line income, they are temporarily fooled. This viewpoint has far-reaching consequences. It suggests, for instance, that it may be necessary to limit the amount of accounting discretion managers have, since investors apparently cannot unravel the valuation effect of reported earnings in a timely manner under current reporting standards.

Such an interpretation may be premature, however. There is some evidence in the literature that accounting accruals are above average for ﬁrms subject to enforcement actions by the SEC (see Dechow et al. (1996)). However, there is no documented evidence that managers deliberately manipulate earnings through

accruals for ﬁrms with high accruals in general. Rather, the predictive power of accruals may reﬂect other inﬂuences. Numerous variables inﬂuence the level of accruals. For example, accruals are driven by changes in working capital, which in turn tend to rise with sales. A high level of accruals, then, may be a reﬂection of strong past growth in sales. Some evidence from studies in psychology suggest that investors extrapolate past trends from short histories too far into the future (see, for example, the discussion in Shleifer (2000)). If this were the case, and investors overestimate future sales growth when pricing ﬁrms with high accruals, future returns are likely to turn out to be disappointing.

Another explanation is that the components that make up accruals contain information about operating performance but the market reacts to this information slowly. The components of accruals, such as changes in inventories, receivables, and payables are commonly used by security analysts as indicators of business conditions. A build-up of inventories, for instance, may suggest difﬁculties in generating sales or overproduction. Similarly increases in payables may imply problems with paying suppliers, which may in turn be due to insufﬁcient sales revenues or credit difﬁculties. There is evidence, moreover, that the market responds with a delay to the information in the overall earnings number (see, for example, Bernard and Thomas (1990), Chan, Jegadeesh and Lakonishok (1996)). Accordingly there may be a similarly slow response to the components contained in accruals. In this case the components of accruals may serve as early indicators of improvement or deterioration in operating performance.

It bears noting that the hypotheses are not mutually exclusive. When sales growth starts to slow, for example, managers may face mounting pressures to inﬂate earnings in order to meet analyst forecasts, thereby leading to an increase in accruals. These pressures may be all the stronger insofar as investors and analysts maintain exaggerated expectations about future proﬁtability growth. At the same time, inventory may start to accumulate as sales ﬂatten, and accounts receivable may rise as competitive pressures force ﬁrms to extend better credit terms, so accruals increase. In short, any stark distinctions between the hypotheses may be artiﬁcial, so an eclectic interpretation may be more appropriate.

This paper provides an in-depth examination of the predictive power of accruals for stock returns. We begin by checking whether future stock returns reﬂect information about the current quality of earnings (as proxied by accruals). Additionally, we examine various hypotheses — earnings manipulation, extrapolative

biases concerning future growth, or under-reaction to business conditions — to explain the predictive power of accruals. We sharpen the distinctions between these hypotheses by looking at the operating performance of ﬁrms with high and low accruals, and by examining the individual components of accruals (including accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable). Some items give managers more discretion (for example, with regard to the timing of revenue recognition) so focusing on such items may highlight the effects of manipulation. Importantly, the predictions of the earnings management and under-reaction hypotheses differ for some components of accruals. Under the conventional interpretation that accruals solely reﬂect earnings manipulation, an increase in accounts payable is a favorable event because it reduces accruals. However increases in payables, to the extent that they signal difﬁculties in meeting payments, should be unfavorable from the standpoint of the underreaction hypothesis.

As another way to discriminate between the hypotheses, we decompose accruals into nondiscretionary and discretionary components based on sales growth. An increase in sales may, for instance, give rise to an increase in inventories and accounts receivable, thereby raising the nondiscretionary component of accruals. If extrapolative biases are boosting investor valuations of ﬁrms with high accruals, the nondiscretionary accrual component should do well in predicting future returns. On the other hand, the manipulation hypothesis and delayed reaction hypothesis suggest no role for nondiscretionary accruals; only the discretionary component of accruals should predict future returns.

These are our main ﬁndings. Accruals are reliably, negatively related to future stock returns. Firms with high current accruals experience a sudden, large increase in accruals over the prior year, accompanied by a substantial deterioration in cash ﬂows. The high accrual years mark a turning point in the fortunes of these ﬁrms. The high accrual ﬁrms exhibit high levels of past earnings and sales growth. These companies continue to report growing earnings even as accruals are high and only in the subsequent year do earnings show signs of deterioration. Accordingly, the time series behavior of accruals and operating performance for ﬁrms with the largest accruals gives strong hints that managers are manipulating earnings, and the market is initially misled.

However, two pieces of evidence suggest that the manipulation hypothesis may not be the only explanation for the predictive power of accruals. First, the predictive power of one accrual item, changes in

accounts payable, does not ﬁt the manipulation hypothesis. A decrease in accounts payable lowers accruals and hence, under the conventional interpretation, suggests future returns are low. In fact, however, a decrease in accounts payable is associated with relatively high future returns. This ﬁnding suggests that accounts payable, at least, serves as an early indicator of changes in ﬁrms’ business conditions which seems to be partially ignored by investors. Second, the general perception is that accounts receivable are at least as easy to manipulate as inventories. However, changes in inventory are by far the most important component of accruals for predicting future returns, with changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable tied for second place.

We ﬁnd that the non-discretionary component of accruals, which we construct by extrapolating past trends in sales growth and accruals, does not predict future returns. Only the discretionary components of accruals, and accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable predict returns. Therefore, the extrapolation hypothesis is unlikely to explain the predictive power of accruals.

In a larger context beyond why accruals predict returns, our results suggest that the quality of earnings matters. When an increase in earnings is accompanied by high accruals, suggesting low-quality earnings, subsequent stock returns are sub-par. Notably, in a two-way classiﬁcation, the marginal contribution of accruals in predicting returns exceeds the contribution of earnings surprises.

The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 1 describes the sample and helps to motivate the importance of earnings quality through a simple two-way classiﬁcation. Section 2 documents the accrual effect. Various hypotheses as to why accruals predict returns are explored in section 3. The results from cross-sectional regressions are reported in section 4. Section 5 concludes.

# I. Preliminaries

## A. Sample and methodology

The sample comprises all ﬁrms listed on the New York (NYSE), American (AMEX) and Nasdaq markets which are covered on both the Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP) ﬁle as well as the Compustat ﬁles (current and research). We consider only domestic, primary stocks so closed-end funds, investment

trusts, units and foreign companies are excluded. Following related accounting studies in this area, ﬁnancial ﬁrms (with SIC codes 6000–6999) are dropped from the sample.1

We follow Sloan (1996) and measure accruals as:

Accruals = ∆CA − ∆CL − DEP

= (∆AR + ∆INV + ∆OCA) − (∆AP + ∆OCL) − DEP. (1)

∆CA is the change in non-cash current assets, given by the change in current assets (Compustat annual data item 4) less the change in cash (item 1). ∆CL is the change in current liabilities excluding shortterm debt and taxes payable, given by the change in current liabilities (item 5) minus the change in debt included in current liabilities (item 34) and minus the change in income taxes payable (item 71). DEP is depreciation and amortization (data item 14). The components are further deﬁned as ∆AR the change in accounts receivable (item 2); ∆INV the change in inventories (item 3); ∆OCA the change in other current assets (item 68); ∆AP the change in accounts payable (item 70); and ∆OCL the change in other current liabilities (item 72). As the magnitudes of all these items vary with the overall size of the ﬁrm’s balance sheet, we follow the accounting literature and scale each item by average total assets (the average of total assets, Compustat data item 6, at the beginning and end of the ﬁscal year). Since we are interested in ﬁrms’ operating performance we focus on proﬁtability before ﬁnancing costs and taxes. Our measure of earnings is thus operating income after depreciation (before interest expense, taxes and special items), corresponding to Compustat annual data item 178.

We measure all variables at the end of April each year from 1971 to 1995.2 We assume that there is a four-month delay between the end of a ﬁrm’s ﬁscal year and when the accounting information becomes publicly known. All ﬁrms with available data are included in the sample, regardless of their ﬁscal year-ends. Table 1 summarizes the accounting variables. Panel A provides descriptive statistics on the components of working capital; panel B presents statistics on earnings, cash ﬂow, accruals and the individual accrual

- 1To mitigate return measurement problems with small, low-priced stocks we exclude any stock trading at a price below $5 that falls in the bottom three deciles of market capitalization, based on NYSE breakpoints.
- 2Our analysis begins in 1971 because prior to that year there are fewer than 400 ﬁrms with available data on the required accounting items.

items.3

Accruals comprise the changes in various working capital accounts, so to give some perspective we begin by examining the underlying working capital items in panel A. Current assets is the dominant item, representing 47.1 percent of total assets for the median ﬁrm. Accounts receivable and inventory make up the bulk of current assets, with each item accounting for more than 20 percent of total assets for a typical ﬁrm.

Panel B provides information on the individual accrual items. The largest accrual item is depreciation, but it displays little variability across ﬁrms, as evidenced by the low standard deviation. The items that contribute most to differentiating accruals across ﬁrms are changes in accounts receivable and changes in inventory. The standard deviation of each of these items exceeds 7 percent. Total accruals displays large cross-sectional variability, with a standard deviation of 10.2 percent. This variability is close in magnitude to the average level of earnings (as a percent of total assets). The implication, then, is that changes in accruals that may not appear unusual can lead to substantial changes in reported earnings.

## B. The importance of earnings quality

To help motivate the remainder of the paper, we ﬁrst examine the potential importance of looking beyond the bottom-line earnings number and considering accruals as well. The cross-sectional predictive power of earnings surprises for future returns is widely documented (see, for example, Bernard and Thomas (1989), Chan, Jegadeesh and Lakonishok (1996)). However, it may not be meaningful to compare ﬁrms with large and small earnings surprises without some adjustment to separate cases where ﬁrms are improving their underlying cash ﬂow performance from cases where they may be “cooking the books”. Table 2 checks whether we can reﬁne the predictive power of earnings surprises for returns by taking into consideration accruals as a (crude) measure of the quality of earnings.

In Table 2 stocks are assigned to portfolios on the basis of a two-way classiﬁcation. Stocks are grouped at the end of each April over the sample period into one of ﬁve categories based on earnings surprise. Our indicator of earnings surprise is the change in earnings from a year ago, relative to average total assets.4 At

- 3Each year we calculate the percentiles of the distribution across all ﬁrms in the sample that year. The quartiles reported in Table 1 are the simple means of these statistics over all years in the sample period.
- 4At each portfolio formation date current earnings is the earnings number as of the most recently ended ﬁscal year, assuming a

the same time stocks are independently classiﬁed into quintile groups based on accruals relative to average total assets. The intersection of these two classiﬁcations gives twenty ﬁve categories; stocks are equallyweighted within each group.

We report annual buy-and-hold returns and abnormal returns for each portfolio in the ﬁrst year after portfolio formation. Size and book-to-market adjusted abnormal returns are computed as follows. Each April we calculate quintile breakpoints for size (market value of equity) based on NYSE stocks. Since the bottom quintile of ﬁrms contains a disproportionately large number of ﬁrms (mostly Nasdaq stocks) we break this group out into two categories (the ﬁrst and second decile of the distribution of ﬁrm size). Accordingly there are six categories by ﬁrm size. Independently we calculate quintile breakpoints for the ratio of book-to-market value of equity. The intersection of these two classiﬁcations gives thirty groups. We calculate buy-and-hold returns for equally-weighted portfolios of the stocks within each group. Based on where a stock falls given the size and book-to-market breakpoints, it is assigned one of these portfolios as a control. The abnormal return for a stock is the difference between its raw return and the return of the control portfolio.

In line with results from previous studies, a measure of earnings surprise predicts stock returns. To assess the marginal contribution of earnings surprise, we calculate the spread in returns between the top and bottom quintiles by earnings surprise for each of the ﬁve categories of accruals. The spreads are reported in the last row of each panel in Table 2. The average spread in abnormal returns is 4.2 percent per year. Importantly, the marginal contribution of accruals is larger. From the last column in panel B, the spread in abnormal returns between the top and bottom quintiles by accruals averages 6.2 percent. Even when the earnings surprise is most favorable and one expects positive abnormal returns on the basis of prior research, abnormal returns turn out to be negative if accruals are high. When accruals are high, abnormal returns are negative across all categories of earnings surprise. Holding ﬁxed earnings surprise, returns become more disappointing as accruals rise. To summarize, the evidence in Table 2 suggests that the market may be temporarily misled by ignoring information about the quality of earnings, as proxied by accruals.

four-month publication delay.

# II. The accrual effect

## A. Accruals and stock returns

Table 3 examines the characteristics and returns of stocks classiﬁed by accruals. At the end of April each year, we rank stocks by accruals relative to average total assets and assign them to one of ten equal-sized portfolios. Annual buy-and-hold returns and abnormal returns for these equally-weighted decile portfolios are calculated for each of the three years following portfolio formation.5

- Panel A of Table 3 describes the average levels of accruals, cash ﬂows, earnings and accrual components for the decile portfolios (all measured as of the portfolio formation date). In the portfolio of the highestranked stocks, accruals average 18.9 percent of total assets while in the portfolio of lowest-ranked stocks accruals are -16.2 percent of total assets. Accruals are positively correlated with earnings, but negatively correlated with cash ﬂow. Earnings relative to total assets are 17.6 percent for the top decile portfolio, but only 7.1 percent for the bottom decile portfolio. Despite their very high earnings, ﬁrms in the top decile portfolio generate negative cash ﬂows because of high accruals. The ﬁrms in the bottom decile portfolio, on the other hand, produce substantial cash ﬂows in spite of their low earnings due to their negative accruals.
- Panel B shows that ﬁrms with high accruals tend to be growth stocks with low book-to-market ratios. Further, they have performed well in the past: growth in sales averages 22.8 percent per year in the three years leading up to portfolio formation. Panels C and D provide additional evidence on the superior past performance of the ﬁrms ranked highest by accruals. The average stock return on this group is 35.9 percent per year over the three prior years, and past abnormal returns are large.6 However, the extraordinary past

- 5If a stock is delisted in a year subsequent to portfolio formation, we use the return on the CRSP value-weighted return from that point on until the end of the holding period. At the beginning of the next holding period we rebalance all remaining stocks in the portfolio to equal weights and compute returns for the following year.
- 6Recall that, in order to mitigate problems with extreme returns in the years following portfolio formation, we exclude from our sample any stock which in the portfolio formation year is priced below $5 and which falls in the bottom three deciles of market capitalization based on NYSE stocks. This exclusion rule tends to drop ﬁrms that have had poor past returns, so the overall average return across the ten portfolios in the pre-formation period tends to be higher than the overall mean return in the post-formation years. Nonetheless, when all stocks are included it is still the case that the high-accruals portfolio tends to have superior past performance.

stock price performance is mainly driven by the large returns three and two years before portfolio formation. One year prior to portfolio formation, their returns, while above average, are less stellar. The rise in accruals for this portfolio, at the same time that its performance undergoes a relative slowdown, is not inconsistent with the idea that managers manipulate earnings to maintain favorable investor sentiment. Further, the lofty valuations of the ﬁrms with large positive accruals probably provides managers with an added incentive to manipulate earnings in order to maintain earnings growth and avoid negative earnings surprises.

Past studies (see, for example, Jegadeesh and Titman (1993), Chan, Jegadeesh and Lakonishok (1996)) document continuations in price trends over intermediate horizons. On this basis the above-average past returns of the portfolio with high accruals suggests that returns should continue to be relatively high in the year following portfolio formation. To the contrary, in the ﬁrst post-formation year the top decile portfolio has an average return of only 9 percent (the overall return in the ﬁrst year averaged across all the decile portfolios is 15.6 percent). The lowest-ranked decile portfolio has an average return of 17.8 percent, so that the return differential between the low- and high-accruals portfolios is 8.8 percent (the ‘t’-statistic for the difference is 3.79). However much of the difference in returns stems from the relatively poor performance of the high-accruals portfolio. The spread in return between the second and ninth decile portfolios, for example, is only 3.8 percent. Average returns continue to be disappointing for the high-accruals portfolio in the second and third years after portfolio formation.

The portfolio returns after adjusting for size and book-to-market effects (Panel D of Table 3) tell the same story as the raw returns. Mean abnormal returns differ by 7.4 percent between the low- and high-accruals portfolios in the ﬁrst post-formation year. The bulk of the difference is due to the low abnormal return on the high-accruals portfolio (-4.7 percent). In comparison, the abnormal return for the low accrual portfolio is relatively small (2.6 percent). The differences in the abnormal returns across the extreme decile portfolios may stem from differences in the incentives to manipulate earnings upward or downward. In particular, if managers are manipulating earnings, they are more likely to inﬂate earnings than to decrease or smooth earnings through manipulation. As a result, the potential impact of manipulation on returns may be more apparent in the portfolio with high positive accruals. In summary, accruals predict future returns, although the effect is largely driven by the poor performance of the portfolio with the highest accruals, where the

incentive to manipulate earnings may be the strongest.

## B. Operating Performance

To get some insight into the reasons behind the large divergence between earnings and cash ﬂows, we examine the portfolios’ operating performance before and after portfolio formation. Figure 1 plots selected balance sheet items and operating performance measures for the extreme deciles over the ﬁve years before and after portfolio formation. The underlying statistics are provided for all decile portfolios in Appendix Table A1.

At the portfolio formation year-end, average accruals for the highest-ranked portfolio are 18.9 percent of assets. In comparison, this portfolio’s average accruals are less than 6 percent of assets in the other pre-formation years. Accruals in the case of the lowest-ranked decile portfolio behave similarly, only in the opposite direction. Two items are chieﬂy responsible for the sudden change in accruals: inventories and accounts receivable. By their nature, accruals should be mean-reverting. Inventories and accounts receivable may rise temporarily as business conditions deteriorate, for example. However, it is unlikely they will continue climbing for several successive years, once production and marketing decisions are adjusted. Similarly, if managers manipulate earnings by recognizing revenues prematurely, current accruals rise but there will be some accompanying decline in future accruals. Figure 1 conﬁrms that the extreme accruals are quickly reversed in the year after portfolio formation, and the pattern in the post-formation period is similar to the pre-formation period.

There are several possible explanations for the changes in accruals. Accruals may grow if managers expect sales to grow in the near future. For instance, managers may build up inventory in anticipation of large increases in future sales. However, the performance of sales in the post-formation period for the top decile portfolio does not seem to warrant such expectations. In fact, sales relative to assets (sales turnover) drops in the ﬁrst post-formation year, and continues to decline over the subsequent years. In short, it is unlikely that these ﬁrms were building up inventory to meet growing demand.

It is likely that changes in current business conditions, or managerial manipulation of earnings, account for the sudden jump in accruals for the top decile portfolio. A deterioration in business conditions, for

example, may initially result in an increase in inventory because sales increase by less than expected. In the same vein, competitive pressures may compel ﬁrms to offer more attractive credit terms to support sales, thereby raising accounts receivable. Figure 1 and Table A1 conﬁrm that the business conditions facing ﬁrms with high accruals worsen in the years after portfolio formation. However, the timing of the slowdown in sales and earnings (relative to total assets) seems to occur one year after the jump in accruals, rather than contemporaneously. The delay raises the suspicion that managerial manipulation may be contributing to the jump in accruals during the portfolio formation year. Managers may have seen signs of weakness in sales over the year leading up to the portfolio formation date, and they attempt to delay its impact on the bottom line. In particular, managers have considerable latitude as to when expenses or revenues are recognized. To avoid a disappointing earnings report, for example, managers may delay writing off obsolete inventory or allocate more overhead to inventory. This results in an inﬂated valuation of inventory and at the same time a reduction of expenses, and hence higher reported earnings. Similarly, some of the growth in sales in the portfolio formation year may be due to managers’ booking revenues before the sales are completed.

In any event, the upshot from Figure 1 is that an improvement in earnings when accompanied by an increase in accruals (and hence a reduction in cash ﬂow) is an early warning sign of deterioration in future operating performance. The decline in operating performance is accompanied by sub-par stock returns (Table 3).

The operating performance of ﬁrms with low accruals also reveals an interesting pattern, although any evidence of manipulation here is somewhat less apparent. The popular belief is that ﬁrms store some earnings in the form of accruals in good years so that they can tap into such earnings in bad times. For example, ﬁrms may be more aggressive in writing off bad debt and obsolete inventory at times when the bottom line earnings number offers sufﬁcient cushion to absorb such write-offs. However, the ﬁrms with the lowest accruals have declining sales and earnings over the period prior to portfolio formation. Earnings relative to assets and the gross margin hit their lowpoints in the portfolio formation year, so this is not a particularly opportune moment to store earnings through accruals. Rather, it may be the case that these ﬁrms reduce their earnings in the formation year when they see light at the end of the tunnel and signs that their fortunes will rebound in the near future. Cutting earnings even more enables them to show subsequent improvements

in the bottom line numbers that the market does not seem to anticipate fully at the portfolio formation year.

# III. Understanding the predictive power of accruals

## A. The components of accruals

Relating total accruals to future stock returns provides limited opportunities to distinguish between the competing explanations for accruals’ predictive power. One way to focus our tests is to look at the components of accruals. For example, some items may be more susceptible to managerial manipulation than others, while other components may be better indicators of past or future business conditions. Importantly, in the case of an increase in accounts payable the manipulation hypothesis and the underreaction hypothesis yield very different predictions. On the one hand, an increase in accounts payable may be an early warning sign of deterioration in cash ﬂow and hence signals poor stock price performance in the future. Under the conventional belief that changes in accruals connote manipulation, however, a rise in accounts payable lowers current accruals and is perceived as transferring current earnings to the future. Insofar as investors interpret this as a negative shock to current earnings and do not recognize the impact on future earnings, the future stock price performance should be favorable as future earnings recover.

Table 4 reports returns on portfolios sorted by each component of accruals. With the exception of changes in other current liabilities, each component reliably predicts raw and abnormal returns at least over the ﬁrst year following portfolio formation. The accrual component that is associated with the largest spread in returns over the post-formation period is changes in inventory (panel B). The mean raw return over the ﬁrst post-formation year for the portfolio ranked lowest by ∆INV is 19 percent, compared to 9.5 percent for the highest-ranked portfolio, for a spread of 9.53 percent. The spread in average abnormal returns is 7.2 percent. These are comparable to the spreads associated with total accruals. In Table 3, the corresponding spreads are 8.8 percent and 7.4 percent for raw and abnormal returns, respectively.

∆INV may signal unanticipated changes in a ﬁrm’s future prospects. For example, in many macroeconomic models, changes in aggregate inventory are a negative leading indicator of future economic conditions. On the other hand, it is possible to manipulate earnings through ∆INV . For example, managers

may not be fully writing off obsolete items in their inventories, or they may be allocating more overhead expenses to inventory than to cost of goods sold.

In the ﬁrst year after portfolio formation, changes in accounts receivable (panel A) are associated with a mean spread in raw returns of 5.4 percent, or 3.1 percent for abnormal returns. Accountants and regulators suggest that overstating revenues, or recognizing revenues prematurely, are common ways to manipulate earnings. Accounts receivable may also be increasing because as sales ﬂatten and business conditions worsen, ﬁrms are compelled to offer more generous credit terms to hold on to customers.

Changes in accounts payable (panel D) provide a sharp means to discriminate between two of our hypotheses. In panel D, the sort by ∆AP indicates that the extreme decile portfolios’ future performance does not mesh with the conventional notion that identiﬁes accruals with managerial manipulation. Speciﬁcally, over the post-formation period it is the highest ranked decile portfolio that has relatively poor returns while the lowest ranked portfolio does not underperform. The top decile portfolio’s abnormal return is -3.1 percent in the ﬁrst post-formation year while the bottom decile portfolio’s abnormal return is 2.6 percent. Averaging over the three post-formation years, the average abnormal returns for the top and bottom decile portfolios are -2 percent and 0.7 percent per year, respectively. The positive spread in returns between the bottom and top decile portfolios ranked by changes in accounts payable is consistent with investors being slow to impound changing business conditions into stock prices. For instance, when a company’s business prospects deteriorate, accounts payable may rise because the ﬁrm has difﬁculties in meeting payments.

In summary, inventory changes are the dominant component of accruals for predicting returns. Changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable also have some predictive power. However, the negative association between accounts payable changes and future returns is hard to square with the conventional presumption that accruals reﬂect managerial manipulation of earnings.

## B. The role of nondiscretionary and discretionary accruals

As business conditions such as sales vary across ﬁrms, so do working capital requirements and thereby the level of accruals. Controlling for the effects of business conditions may help tease out more clearly the role of managerial discretion in using accruals to manipulate earnings. In this section we implement this

idea by decomposing the level of accruals into nondiscretionary and discretionary components. The nondiscretionary component captures the impact of business conditions while the discretionary portion reﬂects managerial choices. Our strategy parallels other approaches in the accounting literature for distinguishing between non-discretionary and discretionary accruals (see Jones (1991)).

Few ﬁrms have sufﬁciently long time series to permit reliable estimation of a regression model to extract the discretionary portion of accruals. Instead we rely on a parsimonious model. For each of the underlying working capital items except depreciation, we relate its level, Accit, for ﬁrm i in year t, to its current sales, Salesit, as follows:

5 k=1 Accit−k

Et(Accit) =

#### Salesit. (2)

5 k=1 Salesit−k

The nondiscretionary part of the accrual component, NDAit is then given by

#### NDAit = Et(Accit) − Accit−1, (3)

while the discretionary part, DAit is

#### DAit = Accit − Et(Accit). (4)

Equation (2) models the level of each underlying working capital account as a relatively stable proportion of ﬁrm sales. The model reﬂects the idea that working capital requirements are closely related to sales. To smooth out transitory ﬂuctuations in this relation we estimate the proportion as the ratio of a moving average of the past ﬁve years of the account to a moving average of the past ﬁve years of sales. The discretionary component of this account is then the difference between the actual level and its ﬁtted level from equation (2).

Stocks are sorted into decile portfolios by discretionary accruals in panel A, and nondiscretionary accruals in panel B of Table 5. In terms of the return spreads between the lowest- and highest-ranked decile portfolios, the sort by discretionary accruals comes close to matching the performance of the sort by total accruals. In panel A, the return spread between the extreme deciles is 7.8 percent in raw returns (7.4 percent in abnormal returns) over the ﬁrst post-formation year. The spreads corresponding to the classiﬁcation by total accruals are 8.8 and 7.4 percent for raw and abnormal returns, respectively. Very large changes in

working capital in any year are likely to reﬂect instances of managerial discretion, so the extreme portfolios in the sort by accruals should also do well in detecting the impact of manipulation. What is more telling is how well discretionary accruals spread out the returns for the other, intermediate, portfolios. For example, the second and ninth decile portfolios have a spread in abnormal returns over the ﬁrst subsequent year of 5.6 percent based on discretionary accruals, compared to 2.5 percent based on total accruals.7

One explanation for the returns on ﬁrms with high accruals is that investors regard such ﬁrms as enjoying superior sales growth in the past and form exaggerated expectations about future growth. Panel B indicates that there is essentially no association between nondiscretionary accruals and future returns. This evidence is not consistent with the hypothesis that ﬁrms with large accruals represent instances of overvaluation because of biases in investors’ expectations about future growth.

Table 6 examines the predictive power of individual components of accruals, in terms of their discretionary and nondiscretionary values. For the sake of brevity we report differences in the returns (raw and abnormal) between the extreme decile portfolios. Since Table 4 indicates that changes in three accounts — inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable — account for the bulk of the predictive power of accruals, we limit attention to these items.

The results from Table 6 echo those in the earlier tables. For instance, the discretionary component of inventory changes is associated with the largest spreads in future abnormal returns. The difference in the ﬁrst post-formation year between the extreme decile portfolios is 9.1 percent in terms of abnormal returns. Discretionary increases in accounts payable are associated with lower future returns, counter to the managerial manipulation hypothesis, but in line with the market underreaction hypothesis. For both inventory and accounts payable, the nondiscretionary portion induces almost no difference in returns.

Information on that part of accruals which is predictable from past sales, or discretionary accruals, would appear to be easily available to sophisticated investors and analysts. Accordingly it would stretch credulity if returns are systematically related to discretionary accruals. In this respect our ﬁnding that future returns

7Many related studies in the accounting literature use the Jones (1991) model to decompose accruals into discretionary and nondiscretionary components. In additional, unreported, work we replicate our results with the Jones (1991) model. Compared to the Jones decomposition, our approach based on past sales generally yields larger spreads in future returns and a more monotonic pattern across the decile portfolios’ returns.

are related only to discretionary accruals provides some reassurance that the accrual effect is not entirely spurious.

# IV. Cross-sectional regressions

## A. Accrual regressions

As another way to determine the impact of the individual accrual items we carry out monthly cross-sectional regressions. Table 7 reports the time-series averages of the regression slopes together with their ‘t’-statistics. The dependent variable in each regression is the annual abnormal return for individual stocks. Panel A presents results based on raw accruals, and panel B gives results for discretionary accruals.

Regression (1) in panel A conﬁrms a negative and signiﬁcant relation between raw accruals and future abnormal returns. The slope coefﬁcient for accruals averages -0.2627 (with a ‘t’-statistic of -4.14). In the univariate regressions for the individual accrual items the slope coefﬁcients are also negative and signiﬁcant. When all three accrual components — changes in accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable are included (regression (5)) the item with the largest predictive power is inventory changes. The average slope for ∆INV is -0.2661, and it is almost as large as the slope for accruals by itself in the ﬁrst regression. Notably, the average slope for changes in accounts payable is always negative in panel A, although it is not statistically signiﬁcant in regression (5).

The results for discretionary accruals in panel B generally tell a similar story. For example the average slope for discretionary accruals is -0.2419 (with a ‘t’-statistic of -5.20) in regression (6), and the average slope for discretionary changes in inventory is -0.3259 (with a ‘t’-statistic of -4.55) in regression (10).

## B. Portfolio results based on return prediction models

Regardless of why items like changes in inventory or accounts payable predict returns, there is no reason to think that a catchall measure like total accruals best summarizes the information in these predictors. Parsimony compels us to look at a short list of variables, but the speciﬁc linear combination of these variables deﬁned as accruals may not necessarily be the most informative indicator of manipulation or future business

conditions. Indeed, the negative association between accounts payable and future returns strengthens the suspicion that it may be possible to improve on the accrual measure. In particular slopes from regression models such as those in Table 7 can be interpreted as weights for constructing alternative indicators. In this section we see if measures constructed in this fashion turn out to be more informative than considering accruals only. We do this by implementing a trading strategy based on predicted returns from the models, and examining whether the predictions from the models spread out returns more than do accruals.

We consider four return prediction models. In model 1, the predictor is accruals, so all the individual accrual components (depreciation and changes in: inventories, accounts receivable, accounts payable, other current assets, and other current liabilities) enter the regression. Model 2 uses the discretionary components of these same items, as given by equations (2) and (4). Model 3 uses as predictors changes in: inventories, accounts receivable and accounts payable. The discretionary components of these three variables serve as the predictors in model 4. At each year-end we take a rolling average of the estimated coefﬁcients from all the prior years’ cross-sectional regressions and use these as the parameters in the prediction model. Based on the predicted return from the model, stocks are ranked and grouped into one of ten portfolios. Buy-andhold raw returns and abnormal returns for the ten equally-weighted portfolios are then calculated over the subsequent year.8

Table 8 reports the mean returns for the portfolios. Recall that the sort by accruals generates a return differential of 8.8 percent in raw returns and 7.4 percent in abnormal returns between the extreme deciles over the ﬁrst subsequent year. This performance is roughly matched by all the models in Table 8. For example, the predictive model (1), which is based on all the individual accrual items, yields a spread of 8.3 percent for raw returns, and 7 percent for abnormal returns between the extreme deciles. Economic intuition suggests that the nondiscretionary portion of accruals should not help to predict returns, so a strategy that excludes this component should do better. Model (2), which is based on the discretionary portion of the individual accrual items, conﬁrms this logic. The spread in raw returns (abnormal returns) is 8.9 percent

8To start the trading rule at the beginning of the sample period, we use the average coefﬁcients from the ﬁrst ﬁve years’ crosssectional regressions to generate predicted returns. Returns earned from the trading strategies are calculated from the sixth year onward. This ensures that there is no look-ahead bias.

(8.8 percent).

Compared to a trading rule based on total accruals, rules based on models (3) and (4), which use only three accrual items — changes in inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable — compare favorably. The difference, however, is that models (3) and (4) allow for a negative predictive relation between accounts payable changes and returns. In particular, the investment strategy based on model 4 yields the largest return spread (9.7 percent in raw and abnormal returns). This model predicts returns based on discretionary values of ∆INV , ∆AR, and ∆AP.

# V. Summary and conclusions

A ﬁrm’s “bottom-line” earnings number has traditionally been the focus of analysts, investors and researchers, while other ﬁnancial statement items have generally been overlooked. This paper provides evidence suggesting that a broader set of information from ﬁnancial statements may have rich predictive power for stock returns. In particular, there is a reliable, negative association between accruals (the difference between accounting earnings and cash ﬂows) and future stock returns. Importantly, the behavior of accruals throws a different light on the well-documented relation between earnings surprises and stock returns. Increases in earnings, when accompanied by high accruals, are associated with sub-par returns. In this regard, accruals may provide information about the quality of earnings.

The bulk of the predictive power of accruals stems from changes in inventory. Changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable also have strong predictive power. Notably, following an increase in accounts payable, which would tend to lower accruals and predict higher returns on this basis, future returns are disappointing.

There are at least three possible explanations for why accruals predict stock returns. Under the conventional interpretation, high accruals smell of earnings manipulation by managers. On the other hand accruals may serve as leading indicators of changes in a ﬁrm’s prospects, without any manipulation by managers. Accruals may also predict returns if the market views accruals as reﬂecting past growth, and extrapolates such growth to form expectations about future performance.

The time series behavior of accruals and the performance characteristics of ﬁrms with high accruals suggest that managers are manipulating earnings. In particular, we ﬁnd that a large increase in accruals marks a sharp turning point in the fortunes of a company. A ﬁrm that looked dazzling (with high stock returns and high earnings growth) in the years preceding the rise in accruals suddenly appears to lose steam. Earnings in subsequent years, along with stock prices, tumble. Intriguingly, in the year when accruals are high and possibly signal that the company is falling on harder times, earnings show no weakness but continue to grow rapidly. These patterns suggest that ﬁrms with high accruals already face symptoms of adverse changes in their fortunes, but they use creative accounting to delay reporting the bad news.

Not surprisingly, the ﬁrms with the highest accruals also tend to display increases in accounts receivable, accounts payable, and inventories. We ﬁnd that changes in accounts receivable and inventory are negatively related to future returns. These results are consistent with both the earnings manipulation hypothesis and the delayed reaction hypothesis. We ﬁnd that changes in accounts payable are also negatively related to future returns, which runs counter to the conventional notion that the predictive power of accruals is mainly due to managerial manipulation. Rather, it suggests that at least this accrual item helps signal future business prospects. For example, an increase in accounts payable can signify a weakening ﬁnancial situation that induces ﬁrms to delay payments to suppliers.

In summary the underreaction hypothesis can account for the differences in returns across portfolios sorted by each of the various accrual items. The manipulation hypothesis can also account for the spreads associated with all the individual accrual items except changes in accounts payable. As far as the amount of managers’ accounting discretion is concerned, the general perception is that it is relatively easy to manipulate earnings by booking revenues prematurely. On this basis, accounts receivable should be a stronger indicator of manipulation than inventory. However, changes in accounts receivable do not predict returns as well as inventory changes, which are associated with the largest return spreads. Our results thus suggest that the two hypotheses are not mutually exclusive.

We also sharpen our tests by decomposing accruals into discretionary and nondiscretionary components. The discretionary component, which may be a better reﬂection of managerial discretion in determining accruals, is the main contributor to the predictability in returns. The accounting literature generally tends to

regard discretionary accruals as being an indicator of managers’ attempts to manipulate earnings. Nondiscretionary accruals, on the other hand, do not help to predict returns, contrary to the hypothesis that high-accrual ﬁrms tend to be overvalued because of exaggerated expectations about future growth.

Regardless of the sources of accruals’ predictive power, a simple catchall measure such as accruals may not be the most informative indicator of earnings manipulation or changes in business conditions. Accordingly we develop a model based on the components of accruals to predict future returns. This model does better in spreading out returns than the simple accrual measure. A small number of discretionary accrual items, which seem to represent a combination of inﬂuences, including managerial manipulation of earnings and early signs of changes in business conditions (through accounts payable changes), contain information about the cross-section of future returns.

### References

Abarbanell, Jeffrey, and Reuven Lehavy, 2000, Biased forecasts or biased earnings: The role of earnings management in explaining apparent optimism and inefﬁciency in analysts’ earnings forecasts, working paper, University of North Carolina.

Bernard, Victor L., and Jacob K. Thomas, 1989, Post-earnings-announcement drift: Delayed price response or risk premium?, Journal of Accounting Research (Supplement) 27, 1–36. Chan, Louis K. C., Narasimhan Jegadeesh, and Josef Lakonishok, 1996, Momentum strategies, Journal of Finance 51, 1681–1713.

Dechow, Patricia, Richard Sloan, and Amy Sweeney, 1996, Causes and consequences of earnings manipulation: An analysis of ﬁrms subject to enforcement actions by the SEC, it Contemporary Accounting Research 13, 1–36.

Degeorge, François, Jayendu Patel, and Richard Zeckhauser, Earnings management to exceed thresholds, Journal of Business 72, 1–33. Foster, George, Chris Olsen, and Terry Shevlin, 1984, Earnings releases, anomalies, and the behavior of security returns, The Accounting Review 59, 574–603. Houge, Todd, and Tim Loughran, 2000, Cash ﬂow is king: Cognitive errors by investors, Journal of Psychology and Financial Markets, forthcoming. Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, and Sheridan Titman, 1993, Returns to buying winners and seling losers: Implications for stock market efﬁciency, Journal of Finance 48, 65–91. Jones, Jennifer J., 1991, Earnings management during import relief investigations, Journal of Accounting Research 29, 193–228. Latane, Henry A., and Charles P. Jones, 1979, Standardized unexpected earnings 1971–1977, Journal of Finance 34, 717–724. Shleifer, Andrei, 2000, Inefﬁcient markets: An introduction to behavioral ﬁnance, Oxford University Press.

Sloan, Richard G., 1996, Do stock prices fully reﬂect information in accruals and cash ﬂows about future earnings?, Accountng Review 71, 289–315.

- Teoh, Siew Hong, Ivo Welch, and T. J. Wong, 1998a, Earnings management and the long-run performance of initial public offerings, Journal of Finance 53, 1935–1974.
- Teoh, Siew Hong, Ivo Welch, and T. J. Wong, 1998b, Earnings management and the underperformance of seasoned equity offerings, Journal of Financial Economics 50, 63–99.

Table I Summary statistics

The sample comprises all domestic common stocks (except ﬁnancial ﬁrms) on NYSE, Amex and Nasdaq with coverage on CRSP and Compustat, and with available data. Variables for each ﬁrm are measured as of the end of April each year from 1971 to 1995, assuming a reporting delay of four months from the end of the ﬁscal year. Panel A provides summary statistics for the components of working capital (each item is divided by average total ﬁrm assets). Panel B provides statistics for: ∆CA the change in non-cash current assets; ∆CL the change in current liabilities excluding short-term debt and taxes payable; DEP depreciation and amortization; ∆AR, change in accounts receivable; ∆INV , change in inventories; ∆OCA, change in other current assets; ∆AP, change in accounts payable; ∆OCL, change in other current liabilities. Accruals is deﬁned as (∆CA−∆CL−DEP); earnings is measured as operating income after depreciation; cash ﬂow is earnings minus accruals. All items are divided by average total ﬁrm assets.

### Panel A: Components of working capital (relative to average total assets)

|Variable<br><br>|Standard 25-th 75-th Mean deviation percentile Median percentile|
|---|---|
|Current assets Current liabilities Accounts receivable Inventory Other current assets Accounts payable Other current liabilities|0.459 0.238 0.269 0.471 0.631 0.191 0.110 0.117 0.171 0.240<br><br>0.217 0.140 0.115 0.204 0.290<br><br>0.218 0.170 0.064 0.203 0.331<br><br><br>0.024 0.028 0.008 0.016 0.030 0.103 0.082 0.050 0.081 0.128 0.089 0.069 0.044 0.073 0.112<br><br>|

### Panel B: Earnings, cash ﬂow and accruals (relative to average total assets)

|Variable|Standard 25-th 75-th<br><br>Mean deviation percentile Median percentile|
|---|---|
|∆CA ∆CL DEP ∆AR ∆INV ∆OCA ∆AP ∆OCL<br><br>Accruals Earnings Cash ﬂow<br><br>|0.060 0.121 0.001 0.038 0.100 0.027 0.064 -0.001 0.018 0.047 0.045 0.028 0.027 0.039 0.055 0.030 0.073 -0.001 0.017 0.050 0.026 0.071 -0.002 0.010 0.046 0.004 0.023 -0.001 0.002 0.007 0.014 0.045 -0.004 0.008 0.026 0.013 0.038 -0.001 0.008 0.022<br><br>-0.012 0.102 -0.064 -0.024 0.028 0.121 0.126 0.070 0.117 0.176 0.133 0.141 0.075 0.137 0.202|

−−∆CA∆CLDEP∆CA∆CLAccrualsaredeﬁnedaswhereisthechangeinnon-cashcurrentassets;thechangeincurrentliabilitiesexcluding DEPshort-termdebtandtaxespayable;isdepreciationandamortization.Earningsisoperatingincomeafterdepreciation.

| |Earningschangerelative toaveragetotalassets<br><br>| |PanelB:Abnormalreturns<br><br>| |Earningschangerelative toaveragetotalassets<br><br>| |PanelA:Rawreturns|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|(5)-(1)0.0300.0450.0380.0590.039|1(Low)-0.004-0.009-0.018-0.054-0.051 20.0340.026-0.010-0.015-0.037<br><br>30.0560.0280.0110.018-0.027 40.0660.0320.0100.020-0.008<br><br>5(High)0.0260.0350.0210.005-0.012<br><br>|Accrualsrelativetoaveragetotalassets 1(Low)2345(High)<br><br>| |(5)-(1)0.0120.0190.0270.0520.024|1(Low)0.1580.1520.1380.1010.096 20.1930.1840.1500.1420.116<br><br>30.2130.1840.1660.1740.117 40.2150.1850.1620.1710.139<br><br>5(High)0.1700.1700.1640.1530.120<br><br>|Accrualsrelativetoaveragetotalassets 1(Low)2345(High)<br><br>| |
| |0.047 0.071<br><br>0.083 0.073<br><br>0.038|(1)-(5)| | |0.062 0.078<br><br>0.096 0.076<br><br>0.050|(1)-(5)| |

Earningschangerelative30.0560.028 toaveragetotalassets40.0660.032

toaveragetotalassets40.2150.185 5(High)0.1700.170

20.1930.184 Earningschangerelative30.2130.184

5(High)0.0260.035

1(Low)-0.004-0.009 20.0340.026

1(Low)2 1(Low)0.1580.152

(5)-(1)0.0300.045

###### (5)-(1)0.0120.019 PanelB:Abnormalreturns

PanelA:Rawreturns Accrualsrelative

Accrualsrelative 1(Low)2

andbook-to-market.

givestwentyﬁveportfolios.Equally-weightedbuy-and-holdrawandabnormalreturnsoneachportfoliointheﬁrstyearfollowingportfolio formationarereportedinpanelsAandBrespectively.Astock’sabnormalreturnisitsreturninexcessofacontrolportfoliomatchedbysize

totalassets)andindependentlybyearningschangerelativetoaveragetotalassets.Earningschangeisthedifferencebetweenearningsfor themostrecentlyendedﬁscalyear(assumingafour-monthreportingdelay)andtheprioryear’searnings.Theintersectionofthetwosorts

Thesamplecomprisesalldomesticcommonstocks(exceptﬁnancialﬁrms)onNYSE,AmexandNasdaqwithcoverageonCRSPand Compustat,andwithavailabledata.StocksarerankedattheendofAprileachyearintooneofﬁvegroupsbyaccruals(relativetoaverage

Table2 Returnsforportfoliossortedbyearningschangeandaccruals

Averageannualgrowthin0.0720.0760.0880.0930.0990.1040.1080.1260.1570.228 salesoverprior3years

LogSize4.124.634.864.884.954.834.644.434.193.88 Book-to-market0.790.830.850.850.860.840.800.760.690.58

∆OCL0.0250.0140.0110.0090.0090.0090.0090.0110.0140.019 PanelB:Firmcharacteristics

∆OCA-0.0030.0010.0020.0020.0030.0030.0050.0060.0080.013 ∆AP0.0120.0100.0090.0080.0090.0100.0110.0140.0190.039

∆AR-0.0240.0010.0070.0110.0150.0210.0290.0410.0630.130 ∆INV-0.029-0.0060.0000.0050.0110.0180.0270.0410.0630.134

∆CL0.0370.0240.0200.0170.0180.0190.0200.0250.0330.058 DEP0.0700.0600.0520.0470.0420.0390.0370.0350.0340.030

Earnings0.0710.1000.1090.1100.1140.1170.1280.1380.1510.176 ∆CA-0.056-0.0040.0100.0180.0290.0430.0600.0870.1340.277

Accruals-0.162-0.088-0.063-0.046-0.030-0.0150.0030.0270.0670.189 Cashﬂow0.2330.1870.1720.1550.1440.1320.1250.1110.084-0.013

1(Low)2345678910(high) PanelA:Accrualsandearnings

returnsarepresentedinpanelCforeachyearfromthreeyearspriortoportfolioformationtothreeyearsafterformation,alongwiththe tdifferencebetweenthebottomandtopdecilesandthe‘’-statisticforthemeandifference.PanelDreportsaverageannualreturnsinexcess

totalassetsandassignedtooneoftenequally-weightedportfolios(assumingareportingdelayoffourmonthsfromtheendoftheﬁscalyear). Averagevaluesofaccruals,earningsandcharacteristicsforeachportfolioarepresentedinpanelsAandB.Averageannualbuy-and-hold

Thesamplecomprisesalldomesticcommonstocks(exceptﬁnancialﬁrms)onNYSE,AmexandNasdaqwithcoverageonCRSPand Compustat,andwithavailabledata.AttheendofAprileachyearfrom1971to1995,allstocksarerankedbyaccrualsrelativetoaverage

ofthereturnoncontrolportfoliosmatchedbysizeandbook-to-market.

Table3 Characteristicsandreturnsforportfoliossortedbyaccruals

∆AR∆INV∆OCA∆AP∆OCLreported:,,,,arethechangesinaccountsreceivable,inventories,othercurrentassets,accountspayable andothercurrentliabilities,respectively.Earningsisoperatingincomeafterdepreciation,andcashﬂowisthedifferencebetweenearnings

averageofthevalue-weightedannualgrowthrateinsalesofeachportfoliooverthethreeyearspriortoportfolioformation.

andaccruals.Alltheaboveitemsaredividedbyaveragetotalﬁrmassets.Logsizeisthenaturallogarithmofmarketvalueofequity(im millionsofdollars);book-to-marketistheratioofbooktomarketvalueofequity;averageannualgrowthinsalesovertheprior3yearsisthe

−−∆CA∆CLDEP∆CA∆CLAccrualsaredeﬁnedaswhereisthechangeinnon-cashcurrentassets;thechangeincurrent DEPliabilitiesexcludingshort-termdebtandtaxespayable;isdepreciationandamortization.Individualcomponentsofaccrualsarealso

Twoyearsafter0.0040.0090.0180.0190.0100.0010.0060.006-0.009-0.0410.0442.97 Threeyearsafter0.0180.0120.0050.0100.0020.0090.0150.0000.012-0.0250.0432.48

Oneyearbefore0.1500.0940.0720.0550.0420.0440.0480.0570.0720.1430.0070.35 Oneyearafter0.0260.0240.0230.0170.0090.0070.003-0.001-0.001-0.0470.0743.83

Threeyearsbefore-0.028-0.0040.0100.0140.0240.0410.0490.0840.1420.243-0.271-9.20 Twoyearsbefore-0.0020.0030.0130.0080.0240.0260.0570.0930.1390.294-0.296-7.21

Threeyearsafter0.1890.1840.1780.1840.1740.1820.1830.1680.1750.1320.0573.08 PanelD:Abnormalreturns

Oneyearafter0.1780.1780.1740.1700.1630.1570.1570.1500.1400.0900.0883.79 Twoyearsafter0.1570.1650.1770.1790.1700.1550.1560.1570.1370.0970.0603.76

Twoyearsbefore0.1300.1410.1510.1470.1630.1640.1990.2320.2730.419-0.289-6.59 Oneyearbefore0.3040.2510.2290.2100.2010.1980.1990.2070.2200.2810.0240.97

PanelC:Rawreturns Threeyearsbefore0.1130.1400.1510.1590.1690.1850.1910.2240.2810.376-0.263-8.34

Table3contd. t1(Low)2345678910(high)1-10‘’-stat

|PanelB:Rankedbychangeininventory R10.1900.1740.1760.1630.1580.1540.1610.1550.1330.0950.0954.63<br><br>R20.1650.1720.1680.1580.1600.1670.1630.1500.1390.1100.0553.45 R30.1820.1850.1770.1890.1640.1780.1810.1800.1670.1440.0382.06<br><br>AR10.0290.0140.0230.0140.0120.0050.0110.006-0.011-0.0430.0724.34 AR20.0010.0120.0130.0090.0060.0120.011-0.002-0.008-0.0320.0332.34<br><br>AR3-0.0010.0070.0100.021-0.0010.0100.0130.0120.001-0.0170.0160.84<br><br>|PanelA:Rankedbychangeinaccountsreceivable R10.1650.1610.1610.1650.1700.1750.1560.1510.1420.1120.0542.66<br><br>R20.1680.1640.1720.1570.1530.1720.1600.1510.1440.1120.0562.94 R30.1830.1860.1920.1770.1730.1750.1810.1770.1650.1400.0432.78<br><br>AR10.0060.0050.0070.0120.0210.0230.0070.005-0.001-0.0250.0312.23 AR20.0040.0010.0090.0030.0000.0180.0100.0020.001-0.0240.0282.10<br><br>AR30.0030.0070.0190.0070.0040.0070.0120.0100.002-0.0150.0181.17<br><br>| |
|---|---|---|
| | |1(Low)2345678910(high)<br><br>|
| | |t1-10‘’-stat|

AR3-0.0010.0070.0100.021-0.0010.0100.0130.84

AR10.0290.0140.0230.0140.0120.0050.0114.34 AR20.0010.0120.0130.0090.0060.0120.0112.34

R20.1650.1720.1680.1580.1600.1670.1633.45 R30.1820.1850.1770.1890.1640.1780.1812.06

PanelB:Rankedbychange R10.1900.1740.1760.1630.1580.1540.1614.63

AR20.0040.0010.0090.0030.0000.0180.0102.10 AR30.0030.0070.0190.0070.0040.0070.0121.17

R30.1830.1860.1920.1770.1730.1750.1812.78 AR10.0060.0050.0070.0120.0210.0230.0072.23

R10.1650.1610.1610.1650.1700.1750.1562.66 R20.1680.1640.1720.1570.1530.1720.1602.94

t1(Low)234567‘’-stat PanelA:Rankedbychangeinaccounts

tAlsoreportedisthedifferencebetweenthebottomandtopdecileportfoliosandthe‘’-statisticforthemeandifference.

R1R2R3bysizeandbook-to-market.Averagereturnsineachoftheﬁrsttothirdyearsfollowingportfolioformation(,,respectively)and AR1AR2AR3excessreturnsineachoftheﬁrsttothirdpost-formationyears(,,)ontheequally-weighteddecileportfoliosarereported.

relative to average total assets and assigned to one of ten portfolios (assuming a reporting delay of four months from the end of theﬁscal year). Annualbuy-and-holdreturnsarecalculatedoverthesubsequentyear,aswellasreturnsinexcessofthereturnonacontrolportfoliomatched

Thesamplecomprisesalldomesticcommonstocks(exceptﬁnancialﬁrms)onNYSE,AmexandNasdaqwithcoverageonCRSPand Compustat,andwithavailabledata.AttheendofAprileachyearfrom1971to1995,allstocksarerankedbyacomponentofaccruals

Table4 Returnsforportfoliossortedbyaccrualcomponents

AR30.0030.006-0.008-0.0050.0070.0060.0150.0180.0040.009-0.006-0.46

AR1-0.0060.002-0.0120.0050.0080.0160.0130.0030.0210.011-0.017-1.28 AR2-0.014-0.0010.001-0.0030.0090.0000.0070.0130.0100.000-0.013-1.01

R20.1420.1560.1600.1540.1660.1550.1600.1630.1550.1380.0040.27 R30.1770.1790.1640.1670.1830.1790.1830.1840.1650.1670.0100.75

PanelE:Rankedbychangeinothercurrentliabilities R10.1470.1580.1410.1580.1610.1670.1620.1510.1640.148-0.001-0.07

AR2-0.0060.0080.0080.0090.0100.0190.0020.006-0.014-0.0210.0151.21 AR30.0020.0100.0060.0030.0200.007-0.0010.0060.009-0.0070.0090.49

R30.1790.1840.1760.1730.1870.1760.1670.1750.1750.1540.0241.60 AR10.0260.0110.0090.0160.0090.0070.0100.003-0.001-0.0310.0575.79

R10.1840.1670.1620.1660.1600.1560.1600.1490.1450.1090.0745.86 R20.1530.1680.1660.1640.1640.1710.1540.1560.1350.1200.0332.55

AR30.009-0.0020.012-0.0070.009-0.0050.0190.0030.0090.0080.0000.01 PanelD:Rankedbychangeinaccountspayable

AR10.0330.0180.004-0.0010.0060.0040.0020.0060.000-0.0120.0454.29 AR20.0040.0050.019-0.0040.0050.000-0.0130.010-0.0050.0020.0020.14

R20.1610.1630.1750.1510.1600.1530.1400.1580.1420.1480.0141.29 R30.1840.1740.1820.1630.1780.1650.1850.1700.1720.1740.0110.75

PanelC:Rankedbychangeinothercurrentassets R10.1870.1720.1550.1490.1580.1540.1540.1510.1450.1330.0544.61

Table4continued t1(Low)2345678910(high)1-10‘’-stat

Accrualsaredeﬁnedasthechangeinnon-cashcurrentassetslessthechangeincurrentliabilitiesexcludingshort-termdebtandtaxespayableand ititSalesitAcc,isrelatedtotheﬁrm’scurrent-yearsales,,asminusdepreciation.Eachworkingcapitalaccountexceptdepreciationforﬁrminyear,

−−−titit1ittit(Acc)AccAccE(Acc)Ewhilethediscretionarycomponentis.Thenondiscretionarycomponentofaccrualsforthisaccountisgivenby

follows: tit(Acc)=E

AR3-0.007-0.0020.0130.0090.0060.0030.0230.0100.006-0.006-0.001-0.05-0.008-0.49

- AR1-0.0110.0110.0080.0140.0120.0080.0070.0030.013-0.005-0.006-0.26-0.001-0.10

- AR2-0.0130.0000.0130.0040.0110.0010.019-0.0040.006-0.0160.0030.19-0.006-0.38

R20.1380.1560.1690.1590.1660.1550.1740.1490.1580.1260.0120.67-0.002-0.10 R30.1610.1680.1840.1790.1780.1740.1920.1790.1750.1560.0060.31-0.007-0.36

Non-discretionaryaccruals R10.1390.1660.1570.1630.1650.1610.1580.1530.1590.1350.0040.170.0070.46

AR20.0080.0180.0130.0010.0100.0060.0010.003-0.004-0.0330.0413.740.0221.66 AR30.0160.0150.0100.0140.0170.004-0.0020.004-0.007-0.0150.0312.710.0211.87

R30.1860.1880.1820.1880.1870.1740.1670.1710.1600.1450.0413.100.0282.07 AR10.0320.0360.0230.0170.0100.000-0.0000.004-0.019-0.0430.0745.510.0565.79

R10.1780.1900.1780.1710.1630.1500.1490.1520.1280.1000.0785.500.0626.01 R20.1590.1750.1710.1590.1650.1590.1540.1540.1440.1100.0494.130.0322.33

1(Low)2345678910(high)(1)-(10)‘t’-stat(2)-(9)‘t’-stat Discretionaryaccruals

5 −k=1itkSales

5 −k=1itkAcc

itSales.

−(2)(9)aswellasthespreadbetweenthesecondandninthdecilesandits‘t’-statistic,arealsoreported.

R1R3AR1AR3sizeandbook-to-market.Rawreturnsandexcessreturnsineachofthethreeyearsfollowingportfolioformation(throughandthrough, −(1)(10)respectively)ontheequally-weighteddecileportfoliosarereported.Thereturnspreadbetweenthebottomandtopdeciles,andits‘t’-statistic,

averagetotalassets.Basedontherankingstocksareassignedtooneoftenportfolios(assumingareportingdelayoffourmonthsfromtheendoftheﬁscal year).Annualbuy-and-holdreturnsarecalculatedoverthesubsequentyear,aswellasreturnsinexcessofthereturnonacontrolportfoliomatchedby

Thesamplecomprisesalldomesticcommonstocks(exceptﬁnancialﬁrms)onNYSE,AmexandNasdaqwithcoverageonCRSPandCompustat,and withavailabledata.AttheendofAprileachyearfrom1971to1995,allstocksarerankedbyaccruals(discretionaryornon-discretionary)relativeto

Table5 Returnsforportfoliossortedbydiscretionary

andnon-discretionaryaccruals

Return spreads for portfolios sorted by discretionary and non-discretionary values of accrual components

The sample comprises all domestic common stocks (except ﬁnancial ﬁrms) on NYSE, Amex and Nasdaq with coverage on CRSP and Compustat, and with available data. At the end of April each year from 1971 to 1995, all stocks are ranked by the discretionary or nondiscretionary values of each component of accruals (relative to average total assets). Based on the ranking stocks are assigned to one of ten portfolios (assuming a reporting delay of four months from the end of the ﬁscal year). All stocks are equally-weighted in each portfolio. Annual buy-and-hold returns are calculated over each of the three years following portfolio formation (denoted R1 to R3), as well as AR1 to AR3, returns in excess of the return on a control portfolio matched by size and book-to-market in the ﬁrst to third post-formation years. The table reports the difference in the raw returns and excess returns between the bottom-ranked and top-ranked decile portfolios (denoted (1)-(10)) and the associated ‘t’-statistic.

Accruals are deﬁned as the change in non-cash current assets less the change in current liabilities excluding shortterm debt and taxes payable and minus depreciation. Each working capital account except depreciation for ﬁrm i in year t, Accit, is related to the ﬁrm’s current-year sales, Salesit, as follows:

5 k=1 Accit−k

Et(Accit) =

###### Salesit.

5 k=1 Salesit−k

The nondiscretionary component of accruals for this account is given by Et(Accit) − Accit−1 while the discretionary component is Accit − Et(Accit).

Discretionary Nondiscretionary

(1)-(10) ‘t’ (1)-(10) ‘t’ Panel A: Ranked by change in accounts receivable

- R1 0.034 2.89 0.033 1.84

- R2 0.027 2.41 0.027 1.53

- R3 0.020 1.40 0.033 2.13

- AR1 0.035 2.99 0.007 0.51

- AR2 0.022 2.08 -0.001 -0.04

- AR3 0.017 1.29 0.008 0.43 Panel B: Ranked by change in inventory

- R1 0.093 7.17 0.008 0.33

- R2 0.045 4.03 0.011 0.73

- R3 0.035 3.05 0.007 0.34

- AR1 0.091 7.02 -0.015 -0.71

- AR2 0.039 3.45 -0.008 -0.53

- AR3 0.028 2.47 -0.009 -0.36 Panel C: Ranked by change in accounts payable

- R1 0.038 4.24 0.040 2.93

- R2 0.000 0.03 0.038 2.72

- R3 0.005 0.34 0.036 1.98

- AR1 0.041 4.95 0.015 1.40

- AR2 0.002 0.21 0.010 1.02

- AR3 0.011 0.87 0.010 0.48

Fama-MacBeth cross-sectional regressions of abnormal returns on accruals and accrual components

The sample comprises all domestic common stocks (except ﬁnancial ﬁrms) on NYSE, Amex and Nasdaq with coverage on CRSP and Compustat, and with available data. At the end of April each year from 1971 to 1995, cross-sectional regressions are estimated of individual stocks’ abnormal returns on the following variables from the prior year (assuming a reporting delay of four months from the end of the ﬁscal year): accruals (the change in non-cash current assets less the change in non-cash current liabilities excluding short-term debt and taxes payable and minus depreciation); change in accounts receivable (∆AR); change in inventory (∆INV ); and change in accounts payable (∆AP). A stock’s abnormal return is its return in excess of the return on a control portfolio matched by size and book-to-market. In panel A the explanatory variables are raw levels of accruals or individual accrual items. In panel B the explanatory variables are discretionary accruals or individual discretionary accrual items. Accruals for ﬁrm i in year t, Accit, are related to the ﬁrm’s current-year sales, Salesit, as follows:

5 k=1 Accit−k

Et(Accit) =

Salesit.

5 k=1 Salesit−k

Discretionary accruals are given by Accit − Et(Accit). The discretionary component of each individual accrual account is deﬁned correspondingly. The reported statistics are the time series average of monthly regression coefﬁcients together with their ‘t’-statistics (in parentheses).

Panel A: Raw accruals as explanatory variables

| |Constant Accruals ∆AR ∆INV ∆AP|
|---|---|
|(1)<br>(2)<br>(3)<br>(4)<br>(5)<br>|-0.0032 -0.2627 (-0.80) (-4.14)<br><br>0.0080 -0.2622 (1.69) (-3.36)<br><br>0.0091 -0.3197 (1.75) (-3.50) 0.0063 -0.3550<br><br>(1.89) (-3.29)<br><br>0.0119 -0.1490 -0.2661 -0.0120<br><br>(2.20) (-1.69) (-2.83) (-0.08)<br><br><br>|

Panel B: Discretionary accruals as explanatory variables

| |Constant Accruals ∆AR ∆INV ∆AP|
|---|---|
|(6)<br>(7)<br>(8)<br>(9)<br>(10)<br>|-0.0014 -0.2419 (-0.39) (-5.20)<br><br>0.0009 -0.2396 (0.26) (-4.34)<br><br>-0.0011 -0.3468 (-0.31) (-5.11)<br><br>0.0012 -0.2125 (0.34) (-1.95)<br><br>-0.0007 -0.1784 -0.3259 0.0229 (-0.19) (-2.60) (-4.55) (0.18)<br><br><br>|

itSalesitwhereissalesforﬁrminyear.

###### −itAcc

5 −k=1itkSales

5 −k=1itkAcc

itSales

ititAccforﬁrminyearthediscretionarycomponentisgivenbyeachaccountingvariable

Model(3)usesaspredictorsthechangein:inventory,accountsreceivable,andaccountspayable.Model(4)usesthediscretionaryvaluesofthesethree variables.Ateachyear-endtheparametersofeachmodelaretherollingaveragesoftheestimatesfromallpreviousyears’cross-sectionalregressions.For

Fourreturnpredictionmodelsareused.Inmodel(1),thepredictorsaredepreciationndchangesin:accountsreceivable,inventory,othercurrent assets,accountspayableandothercurrentliabilities.Model(2)usesthesamevariables,butisbasedonthediscretionarycomponentsoftheseitems.

|(4)<br><br>|(3)<br><br>|(2)<br><br>|(1)<br><br>|Model<br><br>|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|R1 AR1<br><br>|R1 AR1<br><br>|R1 AR1<br><br>|R1 AR1<br><br>|Return<br><br>|
|0.1230.1670.1730.1900.1840.1970.2010.2070.2090.220<br><br>-0.059-0.016-0.0060.0090.0010.0150.0190.0240.0250.038<br><br>|0.1230.1750.1920.1860.1950.2020.1910.1960.1980.212<br><br>-0.0490.0010.0130.0070.0130.0190.0110.0130.0040.017<br><br>|0.1270.1600.1780.1880.1950.1980.1960.1980.2130.216<br><br>-0.052-0.019-0.0030.0060.0110.0130.0120.0160.0300.036<br><br>|0.1220.1800.1890.1920.1840.1920.1940.2060.2070.205<br><br>-0.0530.0060.0080.0100.0010.0110.0110.0200.0200.017<br><br>|1(Low)2345678910(high)<br><br>|
|0.097 0.097|0.089 0.066|0.089 0.088|0.083 0.070|(10)-(1)|

- (1)R10.1220.1800.1890.1920.1840.1920.2050.083 AR1-0.0530.0060.0080.0100.0010.0110.0170.070
- (2)R10.1270.1600.1780.1880.1950.1980.2160.089 AR1-0.052-0.019-0.0030.0060.0110.0130.0360.088
- (3)R10.1230.1750.1920.1860.1950.2020.2120.089 AR1-0.0490.0010.0130.0070.0130.0190.0170.066
- (4)R10.1230.1670.1730.1900.1840.1970.2200.097 AR1-0.059-0.016-0.0060.0090.0010.0150.0380.097

ModelReturn1(Low)2345610(high)(10)-(1)

andbottomdeciles.

R1AR1buy-and-holdrawreturn()andabnormalreturn()arecalculated.Astock’sabnormalreturnisitsreturninexcessofacontrolportfoliomatched bysizeandbook-to-market.Thereportednumbersarethemeanreturnoneachportfoliooverallyears,andtheaveragespreadinreturnsbetweenthetop

componentsofaccrualsfromthemostrecentlyendedﬁscalyear(assumingareportingdelayoffourmonthsfromtheﬁscalyear-end).Basedonthe predictedreturnfromeachmodel,stocksarerankedandassignedtooneoftenportfolios.Overthesubsequentyeareachportfolio’sequallyweighted

Thesamplecomprisesalldomesticcommonstocks(exceptﬁnancialﬁrms)onNYSE,AmexandNasdaqwithcoverageonCRSPandCompustat,and withavailabledata.AttheendofAprileachyearfrom1971to1995,fourmodelsareusedtopredicteachstock’sfuturereturn,basedonvaluesof

Table8 Portfolioreturnsbasedonreturn

predictionregressions

| | |-0.030<br><br>-0.026<br><br>-0.022<br><br>5<br><br>0.011<br><br>0.015<br><br>0.111<br><br>1.389<br><br>0.009<br><br>0.114<br><br>0.144<br><br>0.114<br><br>1.402<br><br>0.012<br><br>0.017<br><br>0.019<br><br>0.117<br><br>0.143<br><br>0.116<br><br>1.411<br><br>0.012<br><br>0.018<br><br>0.021<br><br>0.120<br><br>0.142<br><br>formation<br><br>portfolio<br><br>portfolio<br><br>-0.015<br><br>-0.019<br><br>-0.015<br><br>6<br><br>0.018<br><br>0.021<br><br>0.108<br><br>1.432<br><br>0.010<br><br>0.117<br><br>0.132<br><br>0.111<br><br>1.445<br><br>0.014<br><br>0.020<br><br>0.022<br><br>0.119<br><br>0.139<br><br>0.111<br><br>1.474<br><br>0.015<br><br>0.022<br><br>0.025<br><br>0.123<br><br>0.138<br><br>year<br><br>formation<br><br>formation<br><br>-0.012<br><br>-0.006<br><br>7<br><br>0.027<br><br>0.029<br><br>0.104<br><br>1.515<br><br>0.011<br><br>0.128<br><br>0.125<br><br>0.105<br><br>1.527<br><br>0.016<br><br>0.025<br><br>0.027<br><br>0.130<br><br>0.142<br><br>0.104<br><br>1.556<br><br>0.014<br><br>0.027<br><br>0.028<br><br>0.132<br><br>0.138<br><br>0.003|Portfolio<br><br>before<br><br>before<br><br>-0.030<br><br>-0.026<br><br>-0.022<br><br>0.011<br><br>0.015<br><br>0.111<br><br>1.389<br><br>0.009<br><br>0.114<br><br>0.144<br><br>0.114<br><br>1.402<br><br>0.012<br><br>0.017<br><br>0.019<br><br>0.117<br><br>0.143<br><br>0.116<br><br>1.411<br><br>0.012<br><br>0.018<br><br>0.021<br><br>0.120<br><br>0.142<br><br>formation<br><br>portfolio|
|---|---|---|---|
| |-0.002<br><br>8<br><br>0.041<br><br>0.041<br><br>0.098<br><br>1.656<br><br>0.014<br><br>0.138<br><br>0.110<br><br>0.098<br><br>1.669<br><br>0.020<br><br>0.033<br><br>0.032<br><br>0.138<br><br>0.140<br><br>0.097<br><br>1.684<br><br>0.016<br><br>0.032<br><br>0.034<br><br>0.138<br><br>0.135<br><br>0.027<br><br>0.004|-0.002<br><br>0.041<br><br>0.041<br><br>0.098<br><br>1.656<br><br>0.014<br><br>0.138<br><br>0.110<br><br>0.098<br><br>1.669<br><br>0.020<br><br>0.033<br><br>0.032<br><br>0.138<br><br>0.140<br><br>0.097<br><br>1.684<br><br>0.016<br><br>0.032<br><br>0.034<br><br>0.138<br><br>0.135<br><br>0.027<br><br>0.004| |
| |9<br><br>0.063<br><br>0.063<br><br>0.100<br><br>1.709<br><br>0.019<br><br>0.151<br><br>0.084<br><br>0.100<br><br>1.714<br><br>0.024<br><br>0.043<br><br>0.045<br><br>0.151<br><br>0.136<br><br>0.096<br><br>1.729<br><br>0.019<br><br>0.041<br><br>0.043<br><br>0.147<br><br>0.130<br><br>0.015<br><br>0.016<br><br>0.067| | |
|10(high)|-0.013<br><br>10(high)<br><br>0.134<br><br>0.130<br><br>0.105<br><br>1.844<br><br>0.039<br><br>0.176<br><br>0.098<br><br>1.839<br><br>0.038<br><br>0.073<br><br>0.071<br><br>0.160<br><br>0.105<br><br>0.087<br><br>1.825<br><br>0.027<br><br>0.060<br><br>0.059<br><br>0.139<br><br>0.097<br><br>0.189<br><br>0.056<br><br>0.042| | |

Salesturnover1.4781.4871.4331.412 Earningstosales0.0710.0870.1000.102

∆INV-0.029-0.0060.0000.005 ∆AP0.0120.0100.0090.008

Earnings0.0710.1000.1090.109 ∆AR-0.0240.0010.0070.011

Accruals-0.162-0.087-0.063-0.046 Cashﬂow0.2330.1870.1720.155

Earningstosales0.0760.0890.1000.104 PanelC:Portfolio

∆AP0.0090.0090.0110.012 Salesturnover1.5101.5101.4551.433

∆AR0.0300.0190.0200.019 ∆INV0.0150.0140.0140.017

Cashﬂow0.1180.1480.1490.145 Earnings0.0830.1060.1130.115

PanelB:Oneyearbefore Accruals-0.035-0.042-0.036-0.031

Salesturnover1.5401.5171.4621.457 Earningstosales0.0850.0950.1020.107

∆INV0.0240.0180.0180.018 ∆AP0.0150.0120.0120.011

Earnings0.1010.1130.1180.121 ∆AR0.0300.0210.0210.021

Accruals-0.035-0.038-0.031-0.026 Cashﬂow0.1360.1510.1490.147

1(Low)234 PanelA:Twoyearsbefore

year).Thistablereportsaveragevaluesofaccrualsrelativetoaveragetotalassets,cashﬂowrelativetoaveragetotalassets,earningsrelative ∆AR∆INV∆APtoaveragetotalassets,threecomponentsofaccruals(,changeinaccountsreceivable,,changeininventories,,changein

Compustat,andwithavailabledata.AttheendofAprileachyearfrom1971to1995,allstocksarerankedbyaccrualsrelativetoaverage totalassetsandassignedtooneoftenequally-weightedportfolios(assumingareportingdelayoffourmonthsfromtheendoftheﬁscal

Operatingperformanceofdecileportfoliossortedbyaccruals Thesamplecomprisesalldomesticcommonstocks(exceptﬁnancialﬁrms)onNYSE,AmexandNasdaqwithcoverageonCRSPand

accountspayable)relativetoaveragetotalassets,salesturnover(salesrelativetoaveragetotalassets)andearningstosalesforeachportfolio.

Appendix TableA1

−−∆CA∆CLDEP∆CA∆CLAccrualsaredeﬁnedaswhereisthechangeinnon-cashcurrentassets;thechangeincurrentliabilitiesexcluding DEPshort-termdebtandtaxespayable;isdepreciationandamortization.Earningsisoperatingincomeafterdepreciation,andcashﬂowisthedifference

betweenearningsandaccruals.

Earningstosales0.0730.0860.0960.1000.1070.1020.0930.0850.0780.063

∆AP0.0090.0090.0090.0080.0080.0080.0090.0090.0100.011 Salesturnover1.4961.4801.4031.3971.3551.3931.4721.5921.5991.619

∆AR0.0170.0160.0150.0160.0150.0150.0170.0180.0220.023 ∆INV0.0140.0120.0110.0110.0120.0130.0160.0180.0210.021

Cashﬂow0.1330.1460.1470.1420.1330.1300.1290.1310.1220.098 Earnings0.0790.0970.1030.1050.1030.1020.1070.1120.1080.086

PanelF:Threeyearsafterportfolioformation Accruals-0.054-0.050-0.043-0.037-0.030-0.028-0.022-0.018-0.014-0.012

Salesturnover1.5001.4911.4201.4021.3671.4081.4791.6031.6231.649 Earningstosales0.0760.0880.0970.1010.1080.1030.0950.0880.0830.071

∆INV0.0150.0140.0130.0130.0140.0150.0180.0240.0240.034 ∆AP0.0120.0100.0090.0090.0100.0090.0100.0110.0120.015

Earnings0.0830.1010.1070.1060.1070.1060.1100.1180.1170.101 ∆AR0.0220.0180.0170.0170.0170.0180.0200.0250.0280.031

Accruals-0.051-0.046-0.040-0.033-0.029-0.023-0.019-0.009-0.0050.006 Cashﬂow0.1340.1460.1470.1400.1360.1290.1300.1260.1220.095

Earningstosales0.0800.0890.0990.1020.1090.1040.1000.0930.0900.086 PanelE:Twoyearsafterportfolioformation

∆AP0.0110.0110.0110.0100.0100.0110.0120.0140.0160.023 Salesturnover1.5061.4921.4301.4121.3791.4171.5001.6311.6621.722

∆AR0.0230.0210.0200.0180.0190.0220.0240.0280.0360.049 ∆INV0.0170.0140.0130.0150.0170.0190.0230.0290.0360.055

Cashﬂow0.1350.1480.1470.1400.1330.1270.1320.1310.1220.095 Earnings0.0890.1030.1090.1090.1100.1100.1200.1280.1320.132

PanelD:Oneyearafterportfolioformation Accruals-0.046-0.045-0.038-0.031-0.023-0.017-0.012-0.0030.0100.038

AppendixTableA1continued 1(Low)2345678910(high)

[Figure 1]

[Figure 2]

[Figure 3]

[Figure 4]

[Figure 5]

[Figure 6]

[Figure 7]

[Figure 8]

[Figure 9]

[Figure 10]

[Figure 11]

[Figure 12]

[Figure 13]

[Figure 14]

[Figure 15]

[Figure 16]

[Figure 17]

[Figure 18]

[Figure 19]

[Figure 20]

